
I recalled when I was sent to some of these youth leadership programs early in life. We spent a great deal of time outdoors, learning whatever it ws at the time. The experience was too brief to remember fully at this point but I am glad those programs are still around. There were elders there to guide us, passing on what they could and it did feel like family. Yet, these moments of recollection remind me of other, less positive experiences with people who I have been mistakenly kind to. I was at Office Depot in Corvallis, and I made the mistake of being polite to an older gentleman. The brief, yet memorable event ended with him shaking his head at me, saying that he only acknowledges people who matter to the person he was in the store with. There have been many moments throughout my life that have been just like like, to one degree or another. So, in 'Mentoring the Natural way: Native American Approaches to Education', I understand the importance of respecting elders, yet, those same people have passed that mindset onto their children, and so on. 

I did not expect to have past memories come up, therefore, I will keep to speaking about the text.

The content contained a practices that I hope are revived. The traditional education system of Native American communities was holistic, encompassing a wide range of knowledge and skills essential for survival and well-being. This system was rooted in the belief that all living beings are interconnected and that learning should be experiential, communal, and lifelong.

Elders held esteemed positions, serving as teachers of traditional knowledge and family history. Teaching responsibilities extended beyond biological parents to include aunts, uncles, and other community members. Various teaching approaches were employed, including oral tradition, symbolic writing, and mnemonic devices like picture writing and symbolic paintings. Roles within the community were established through emulation, mentorship, and flexibility. Games also played a crucial role in teaching and learning, allowing youth to develop at their own pace. The core belief that I see missing from many people is to stay mindful of the importance of maintaining balance and harmony with the natural world.
