Week 3 notes

4/15/24
Thoughts about the video: "Teachings of the Tree people and tending the wild."

    Bruce Miller

All teaching is hands on which establishes a natural connection with resources
around.

This method of teaching was cut off when some elders decided to help the youth
survive in the coming new world.

The creation of baskets seemed less about the end product and more about bringing
people together, share knowledge, and strengthen the community. 

Contrasting to today, where everything we see is about the end goal, with the
idea of a 'community' seemingly dissappearing.

When a community begins to degrade, slowly but surely, everything around that
fading community begins to become poisoned.

Question to ask myself: "How are trees teachers?", "How is being like a tree good
for the health of the world?". living breath.

4/17/24
For the discussion, elaborate on how camas was used. 

Explore the trade network that existed for kalapuyan


Apr 22, 2024
Missed



Apr 24, 2024

Fisheries:

    Video title = "The Strong People"

    olympic national park service returning the river, the salmon, tho the
    people.

    https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/west-coast/science-data/dam-removals-elwha-river
    https://www.usgs.gov/news/examining-soils-role-tracing-nutrients-salmon-riparian-trees

    the elwha river contributed to port angeles, increasing commerce and providing
    employment. 

    dick goin gave a statement: "they shouldnt have been kept from their destiny"
    referring to the upstream climb to the top of the mountain, they were
    accustomed to.

    Klallam tribe 

    salmon bring resources from the ocean to the rivers, nourishing the entire
    watershed.

    expand on king salmon

Dams:
    
    

    






The hands-on teaching approach demonstrated in the video "Teachings of Tree People and Tending the Wild" by Bruce Miller is still continued to this day in many industries. I think many have forgotten that the land is a living, breathing entity that we must respect and care for. The video also highlighted the importance of community and knowledge sharing, which is often overlooked in modern society. It is important to remember that we are all connected and that our actions have consequences on the environment and the people around us. This contrasts with the education many recieved, where they are disconnected from the land and moreso operating as observers rather than participants.

I really enjoyed the video titled "The Strong People". It gave me a little bit of hopoe. The efforts to restore the Elwha River and its salmon population to the local Klallam tribe by the people in conjunction with the Olympic National Park Service is a victory indeed. The return of salmon was seen as a restoration of cultural and economic resources, benefiting the entire watershed. Dick Goin's statement about salmon "not being kept from their destiny" highlighted the importance of the natural cycle of salmon returning to their spawning grounds. The importance of king salmon and the impacts of dam removals on river ecosystems were also discussed. While this is a victory, I had no idea that the dam problem was this vast. It is simply not something that I think about on a daily basis and I believe a great deal of the population is like that. The difficulties I see in campaigning for the removal of these dams is the misinformation that can be spread to keep them up by those invested in their existence. Obviously a compromise must be made, one that satisfies the people, the land, and the animals that live in it.
